---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "Reflecting on Assignment 2"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2024-05-2
published: True
labels : 
- Assignment 2
- Reflection
---

  Assignment 2 was a addition to our Assignment 1. We created a online store that allowed users to buy products. Now we had to add a login and registration page and personalize the user experience.
More information can be found <a href="https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/150.Assignment2/experience-Assignment2.html">here</a>
 
  I learnt how to pass parameters and query strings across multiple pages. I also learnt how to apply errors and requirements for values that get passed into the query string, and moved to another page when
done correctly.

  I did not work with a partner for this Assignment

  I looked towards the screencasts and the work we did in class for help. I then used sources such as W3schools or ChatGPT for extra help when needed.
Help was needed with passing the query strings only when the desired value was entered, and making sure that the right query string was entered and displayed.

  This assignment was different from assignment 1 in that there was a lot more intricate details needed to be taken care of. This assignment had a lot of requirements needed. Examples would be email or password formats for registration.
When taking into account all these details, and also attempting to pass query strings and move to different pages whilst maintaining the data, it is a lot more strenous and important in making sure that each specific process works and not just a general process works as in Assignment 1.

  I spent about 70% of the time thinking about how to do something. 15% writing code and 15% testing and debugging.
Testing and debugging may fall into the same category as thinking about how to do something but I would spend a lot of time thinking about how to write the code, and then when I had it down I would write it down and then if it didn't work I'd try to fix it but I'd eventually go back to
thinking about how to fix it again.

  I think making simple requirements worked well in this project. If something didn't occur correctly on a page then the page would error and wouldn't pass. That worked well. It didn't go well when the errors themselves had to be detailed, such as only passing the query string if the password has a digit in it,
whilst the query string still contains the email entered, and that's only accounting if the email was entered correctly. There was a lot of things to take into consideration when writing the code and that made it very difficult.   
 
  If I could go back in time and do things differently, I would try to first make my Assignment 1 work exceptionally well. I would then make most of the code for Assignment 1 work generally well for any situation so that I would not have to change much when applying the intricate details of Assignment 2. I would
dedicate more time to the registration and login page first instead of working on them towards the end.
