---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "Preparing for WODs"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2024-02-17
published: True
---
*Preparing for Invoice1*

The WOD, Invoice1, was about creating a sales receipt for five different products. The Invoice was set up as a table and computed taxes, quantities, and total price. The computing was done dynamically using variables and expressions. For more information on the WOD, go to https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/060.expressions-operators/experience-invoice1.html . I had some problems with the WOD as it took me 2 attempts to complete it. My first attempts at WODs usually aren't done with the expectation to finish it, as I aim to just get a grasp of what I am to do and see what I get stuck on so I can prepare for my next attempts. In my second attempt, I got stuck a few times but I was able to push through and finish it. The WOD was fairly straightforward in the beginning, as it involved a lot of writing down a few lines of code and then copying and pasting it multiple times. When it came to making computing the prices with addition and multiplication, it was also pretty straightforward as it was similar to what we learnt in the class lecture. I did face a problem with my decimals as one of my prices ended up with a very long decimal number and I couldn't figure out in time how to fix it to two decimal places with the "toFixed(2)" line. Since I was running down on time, I just decided to change the quantity and price of the product so it would end up as a nice number, a relatively easy solution to the problem. Making the table was straightforward as it suggested using the template of the example from the WOD page. The rest was straightforward as I did not experience errors whilst following the WOD instructions. In my preparation for the WOD, I knew that the WOD would involve making a table so I decided to pull up the table we made in the footer of the SmartPhoneProducts Lab. It helped a little bit as it reminded me how a table was formatted but I ended up using the template from the WOD page anyways. I do frequently look back at previous Labs or WODs if the work entails similar things we've already done, as a way to refresh my mind. If I had to do the WOD again, I might've tried to go a little faster as in my second attempt I wasn't really in a rush and could've cut down on a lot of time. I might also attempt to make the table in the other option listed, instead of just copying the template already provided in the WOD page. I also would like to figure out how to use the line to fix the decimal places to two, when I had the error with my extended prices. Overall, I think I had a good run at this WOD, I was able to finish the WOD and I also learnt what I needed to work on in the future.
